I have a friend in Transylvania who lives in the very same house where the great big mathematicians, Boya's father and son, live.
His father, Karl Molter, M-O-L-T-E-R, was a Hungarian writer, a professor, and he lived in that building, so the family lived in that building since 1921 or 1922.
Wow.
And we have the gentleman's total correspondence.
in one building.
Wow.
And he has his library.
And it went through the Nazi Times, went through the Communist Times, went through the Ceausescu Times, through the post-Causescu Times, and the books there, and the letters, the personal correspondence.
How did they manage to survive?
Through finagling.
Huh.
I'd love to talk to this person.
You will.
And to his wife.
And, you know, they are both writers.
And they will arrange for you to go to the so-called Peleki Library in Romania, which is one of the most mind-boggling but unknown libraries.
Sounds great.
Oh, yeah.
And then you will have to make the arrangements, but I can help you through the University of Chicago.
You must go to the great library in Egypt, in Alexandria.
There's no library there, though.
I mean, the library was burned to the ground, wasn't it?
I was there with Sada.
There is the spirit of the books, not one book.
But you go in there and you get the creeps.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
So you stand on that spot, right?
Do they know where the spot was, is?
First you go to the library in Israel where they have the dead sea squirrels.
And after you see all that, then you go to Alexandria and go in that room where they had all the squirrels.
you know?
And they will be able to tell you in Cairo what did the books there.
You see, the University of Chicago has a campus in Egypt.
That's something you didn't know?
No.
And this campus is built by the Rockefeller family before air condition was invented.
So they build the building so that the walls are from
white marble and pumped water from the roof trickles down all day on one or the other side of the roof.
And the sunshine is evaporating the water and it cools the roof.
Amazing.
And there are the old Egyptian scrolls
Gee, this is in Tel Aviv or Jerusalem?
No, no, this is in Egypt.
This is in Egypt?
That's the University of Chicago's campus in Luxor.
This is in Luxor?
Yeah.
You know, I collected books, but I also went to places.
You know what I mean?
I know what you mean.
I'm just sitting here in great envy.
No, no, no.
You'll be on all these places.
You are the guy who do this.
You think I can do all this in about six months?
No, no.
How long is it going to take me?
You will have to figure more 14 to 15 months.
because you want this book again to be a blockbuster bestseller.
Yeah, but I mean, I'm going to start writing, you know, next year.
But I can still continue to do these trips, you see.
Absolutely.
I still want this book to come out in 1999.
It will come out, but you have to promise me one thing.
Yeah.
On some of these things, you have to take your life with you.
God, I hope so.
It's, you know, it's...
We'll see, we'll see.
These trips, we're talking a very expensive proposition, you know, but I really want to take her to... You know, if you want to avoid expensive things, you know what are the expensive things?
Go ahead.
Headache pills.
What pills?
What are they?
Anti-acid, like aspirin.
You know?
Uh-huh.
Avoid the headaches.
Oh, headache pills.
Yes, that's expensive.
Funerales are expensive.
Hospitals.
What you enjoy is not expensive.
It's never expensive.
I love you.
That's great.
Sure.
I'm going to take her on some of these trips.
Sarajevo, she said she'll stay home.
She doesn't want to go to the shooting.
I don't blame her, but I will talk to you on another occasion, at length, on Sarajevo.
What I'm going to do now, I'm going to listen to this tape and write down some of these places, and then I'm going to try and start figuring out an itinerary, you know?
And... Send me a copy.
Okay.
And then I think I haven't really made any plans yet for traveling.
I was really advised to wait until the International League of Antigran Booksellers in September because I'm going to meet a lot of European booksellers.
I know.
And they will try to mislead you all over because they will keep their own interest in mind.
But my interest is that you do the best book.
Oh, I will do the best book.
I know you will.
I mean, I have these people now, they want me to do a whole chapter on women's studies, you know.
And I said, you know, I mean, that would be the most boring goddamn thing I could possibly do.
Not if you talk to me.
But I am going to do women's studies, but in the context of also the whole argument of what makes a book worthy of entry into the canon, you know.
Makes, makes.
I just let somebody make a computer study.
I have the first book on women's fashion in my library, in my collection.
Only seven known copies.
Last time it was sold in England in 1985 for 6,200 pounds.
That's a woman's book.
That would give you a title page for the chapter like you have on your Gentleman's.
I also have an original first edition of the first
book on woman's right, which was a Transylvanian book on woman's right in the 1600s, early 1600s.
Woman's study, if you handle it right, can be very interesting.
I think so.
Very exciting.
You know who I had a wonderful visit with when I was in Chicago?
It was Abel Berland.
Oh, he's a terrific guy.
And he calls me late at night sometimes.
He wants to talk about books.
I spent six hours with his books.
I've never seen anything like it.
It was unbelievable.
So anyway, I think we're on the right track here.
Nice to talk to you.
Thank you, Chef Louis.
And my best to yours as well.
Bye-bye.